31 testing 1 2 3 4 testing Just say something well You say you're testing.
Well, what are you testing?
Sorry Down at the Houston City Club have the joy and honor of interviewing mr. Earl Patterson class of 25 mr. Patterson to begin with I
would you describe where you grew up, where you went to high school, what your family did, where they'd come from?
Well, actually, I was born in Dallas in 1903.
And I lost my father when I was three years old.
My mother remarried when I was nine.
That was 1912.
We moved to Galveston.
where I went through high school, well, grade school and high school there and graduated from Ball High School in February 21.
I had to go a half a term longer because I failed Spanish, believe it or not, and had to take another three months.
And I graduated from Ball High School.
As well as I recall now, I got a job that summer working on the Todd Shipyard in Galveston
They were remodeling some of the ships at that time and taking iron pipe off the deck and replacing it with copper pipe.
And it was a dirty, lousy job, but it was a job anyhow.
And then that fall, I, of course, went to A&M.
All right.
How did you come to be interested in A&M?
What did you know about A&M?
I knew the two universities, University of Texas and A&M.
I guess maybe one thing, A&M was closer to home, closer to Galveston, and I liked that.
Also, I had a friend who was—had a brother who was in my high school class, and I got to talking to this man who was in A&M at the time, and he asked me what I was going to take, what course, and I didn't have the slightest idea.
Like most of them, I didn't know what I wanted to do.
He suggested you take mechanical engineering because that was one of the broadest engineering courses.
They had a little bit of everything.
And looking back now, I think that was probably a wise judgment that I made or situation that I made.
And then that fall, I entered A&M with a class of 1925.
Right.
Had you gone up to visit before you went up to enroll?
No, sir.
The closest I saw was A&M College as it would pass by on the Southern Pacific Railroad.
So you applied by mail?
Yes.
Do you remember what it cost that first year?
As well as I recall, it was somewhere around the neighborhood of $125 per semester.
And your family, what were they doing then for a living?
My mother remarried, as I mentioned, and he was in the tugboat business in Galveston.
I think it was called the Bay Towing Company.
And he was general manager of the Bay Towing Company.
And then after that, he eventually became vice president and general manager.
When you went to A&M that first time, did you go by yourself or did somebody go?
Yes, yes.
I went by myself.
On the train?
On the train as a scared freshman.
And what did you take with you?
Do you remember?
I had a, at that time, a thing called a steamer trunk, which was like a little wardrobe.
That and a handbag, I suppose.
That was about it.
What what was in that steamer trunk reckon?
A suit of clothes, some shirts, socks and handkerchiefs, underwear, maybe another pair of shoes.
That was about it.
Not very much.
And how did you get from the station over to the dormitory or wherever you were supposed to be?
Shank's mare.
I walked.
And you carried that that steamer?
No, I don't remember how that got there.
Actually, I kind of think that
At the railroad station there were some of those wagons that you had to pull and we probably with some other students with us.
We loaded up a bunch of those and then hauled them all down there to the dormitory.
At that time I think it was in Foster Hall I spent the first night.
Were there some other Galveston boys with you?
There were some that entered that year but I can't remember
particularly doing that, moving the baggage to the dormitory.
As far as you know, you got off the train by yourself?
Yes.
Okay.
Now, one or two of the other fellows may have been there, and we may have sat together.
I don't remember the details of that.
How did you get broken into the Corps?
Well, the funny thing...
I had, my mother bought me a saxophone during the summer, well I guess in the spring of 1921, and incidentally I started with a class of 25, but I didn't graduate until 26.
Calculus got me.
So anyhow.
What was I talking about?
About how you got into the dorm and into the core.
I had taken saxophone lessons for about three months.
And this friend of mine, who was also going to go to A&M, the brother, knew that I had taken up the saxophone.
He said, well, you're going to get in the band at A&M.
I doubt it because I don't know how to read music yet.
And he said, well, that don't make any difference.
When you get there, go see Farley, who was a band director, Farley or Farley, and tell him you want to get in the band and you'll take lessons from him if he'll let you in the band.
So, a day or two after I got there, I went over and looked up Farley and told him that I was there, I had a saxophone, I'd like to get in the band if I could.
And he said, well, come on over and move your stuff over.
And I said, if I can get in the band, I'll take lessons from you.
So I moved over and I got into the band and waited for Mr. Farley to ask me, when are you going to start taking lessons?
Well, to this day, he hasn't asked me until this day I haven't taken any lessons from him.
But I played in the band, and for the first year or two, I played by ear.
Now, how did you get into the band?
Did you...
Did he allow you then?
Oh, yes.
Yes, I moved right into the dormitory with the other freshmen that were in there.
There happened to be another tenor saxophone player there, Arthur Elliott, who is still alive and living down in Corpus Christi.
He could really eat up music.
He could read the spots very well.
And I would listen to him playing, and then I would look at the music,
and kind of follow there.
And after doing that for several months, I kind of got onto the idea of what was in there.
And that's about the story.
I stayed in the band the whole time I was there and enjoyed it very much and gained a lot of experience in it.
About how many freshmen were in the band your first year?
Well, the total band was right around 100 at that time.
That was in the fall of 25.
And I don't remember for sure, but I'd guess 15 maybe, freshman, 10 to 15.
Was there any kind of testing or any admission process?
Not at that time, no.
And recently the band director was down here at A&M one day, and I asked him then, what do they do now to...
get people get into the band.
They said, well, we check them very thoroughly now.
We have to because there's just so many wants to get in the band.
But at that time, somebody said, if you knew which end to blow in, why Farley would let you in the band.
And that's about the way it was.
Describe, what did y'all call him?
Colonel Farley or Mr. Farley?
No.
I guess it was Mister.
I don't recall that he had any title or anything, except just the band director.
And what was he, big, small?
No, he was rather small, rather frail, had a little black mustache, and I'm not sure.
I always thought he was Italian.
And he was there about two years, I guess, when Dunn, oh, Dunn came in.
Talk about Colonel Dunn.
Colonel Dunn, yes.
Now, I think at that time, I don't think he had the title of Colonel.
I think it was Major Dunn when he first came in.
And he was there until Vern, the director after him.
I can't remember, but he was there a long time.
He was a freshman, and I was surprised years later on to find out here he was, the band director.
Vern Adams.
Vern Adams, yes, yes.
All right, so what outfit were you in in the Corps?
I was in the infantry attached to Company B my first year there.
I think the remaining years I was assigned to Company D in the infantry still.
Did you all have nicknames for units then?
Not that I recall, no.
And you lived in Foster Hall?
No, no.
The band lived in Milner.
Milner.
Milner Hall.
Describe your room your freshman year.
What was in it?
Well, there were three of us in the room and our beds were stacked one on top of each other.
Was it three or two?
I believe there were just two of us in there that first year.
and it had just a regular bunk bed stacked on one one on top of the other and I had I think I guess there were two tables in there one for each one of us and I of course had that little steamer trunk I don't recall whether the other fella had a dresser of any kind or not there wasn't very much in there except just what you brought with you and you had a closet
I don't think there was a closet.
I can't remember the details now, where they hung their clothes.
Of course, I put all mine up in a little steamer truck.
And you didn't have a ceiling fan or anything like that?
No, no.
Just open windows.
Open windows.
Did anyone have a radio?
No.
That was before radios, as well as I recall.
A few years later, I lived out in the shacks, and at that time, radio was coming in, and somebody two or three rows over did have a radio, and we used to go over at nighttime and listen to it.
Describe the uniforms that y'all wore every day.
It was just a regular Army issue uniform.
Khaki.
We wore, we didn't have, I guess we did have a blouse.
And I don't remember now whether we had to buy it that first year or whether it was issued to us.
Did you have olive drab?
Olive drab and rack leggings.
Some of them as well as I recall had
canvas leggings, the underclassmen.
The seniors, of course, wore boots.
Did the seniors yet wear flared?
I don't believe that that
particular time they did, but within a year or two, they had the flared pants along with the boots.
For you as a fish, what kind of hat did you wear or cap?
We had a cap, and I don't remember now whether we wore a hat or not.
I think we must have had a hat in addition to the cap, the raker cap that we wore with a bill on it.
Were you all called fish yet?
Called Fish?
Yes.
Hey, Fish Patterson.
And was your roommate your old lady?
Did y'all use that term?
Old lady, yes.
I had two roommates, neither of which came back for their sophomore year.
They both dropped out after their freshman year.
I don't know whatever happened to them.
Describe a typical class day.
In other words, a Monday through Friday.
Describe when the day began and what you all did as the day went along.
Well, the first thing was bugle call.
First call.
You'd hear that.
We'd get up and dress and go out into formation.
I don't remember if the band marched the Cadet Corps into the mess hall for breakfast or not.
Maybe we did, maybe we didn't.
But anyhow, we were the first ones to enter the mess hall, because we were in Milner Hall, and we were the first one to get in the line there, and then the rest of the Cadet Corps formed on military walk.
And we marched into the band.
We marched the band in, and the cadet corps all followed and went into the Spisa Hall for meals.
Now, before you fell in with the band, did you have to clean up an upperclassman's room?
We didn't have time as well as I recall, but we had to after we came back, I assure you.
Oh, okay.
And what would that involve?
making up their bed and maybe washing out the wash basin to clean it up a little bit and possibly sweeping out the room.
Did you have to polish their shoes?
I don't recall that we did.
We may have, but I don't remember ever doing it.
And in the dining hall, describe the routine of how your outfit sat and what you freshmen had to do.
Well, we all marched in and then we were assigned certain tables.
I think there were
either three or four on each side of the table.
The food was, well, part of the food was already on the table, but scrambled eggs and things like that was brought in later by the boys who worked there in the mess hall.
And during the meal, the officer of the day would read out the announcements for the day and
as he would mention one item and then the freshmen all took their knives and banged the table when he finished that one.
Then he had nailed something else and we'd bang the table again after he was through.
And that went on until the Office of the Day read all of the notes for the day.
Did you and your freshman buddies attempt any kind of pranks?
in the dining hall?
Any jokes?
I don't recall that we did.
We had certain names for certain foods.
Share some of those.
I'd rather not.
One of them, I remember one of the customs was, as well as I recall now, freshmen could not have any, it was either pineapple pie or
or apricot pie was one or the other.
That was taboo for the freshmen.
I don't remember who got it now, probably the sophomores.
But mashed potatoes were spuds.
Milk was cow.
Meat was bull neck.
Tea was horse?
Iced tea?
No.
Oh.
I'd rather not mention that.
Ketchup was blood.
Yeah, ketchup was blood.
Pepper was dirt.
I don't remember that one.
I don't remember all those names now, but it had a name for everything.
Was the name for dessert Cush?
Cush, yes.
Were you freshmen allowed to eat
Cush, except for the apricot and pineapple?
Yes.
And incidentally, we had a classmate whose name was, I can't think of it now, but his nickname was Cush.
because of his given name and I can't think what that was now.
Then did y'all ever throw any food?
Later that would be they would throw things.
I think that they did maybe throw a biscuit or something like that at somebody once in a while and getting back to this hitting the table with a knife when the officer of the day would get through and he'd
give the command to rest, then we'd always bang the table with a knife again.
Now, describe the quality of the food in general.
Of course, everybody belly ached about it, but looking back on it, it was very good.
Spezia did a good job, and we all gained weight on it, I'll assure you.
Did you have some of the foods that you really liked?
What were your favorites?
I liked them all, frankly, and as far as I recall, I ate everything that they'd put on the table.
Did you ever see Mr. Cebisa and so forth?
I probably did, but I don't remember specifically being associated with them any.
All right, so then after breakfast you'd go back to the dormitory, clean up the... Clean up the upperclassmen if you were assigned to it that day and get dressed.
Well, I guess we were already dressed, but when it came time we'd head off to classes.
Now, in what buildings were most of your classes held?
The main building, which is, I guess they call it Old Main, that was where most of our general classes were held.
Then there was a mechanical engineering building and the laboratory.
Civil engineering was over in the civil engineering building, which was on further down military walk.
The chemistry building was in the Old Main building.
Did you have classes in science hall?
No.
Red Bridge?
We didn't have a science hall at that time as well as I recall.
That was the main, I guess most of our classes were held in the Old Main.
Alright, what was there east of Old Main?
Going
Going away from the railroad track, what buildings were back there?
Well, there was... I think there was a chemistry building back up over in there.
Then there was one of the dormitories that I Company infantry lived in.
They called it Black Eye Company.
There was what we call a horse barn.
which was kind of an auditorium.
They had rodeos and things in there.
There was a chemistry building over on that side.
Extension building was back over there.
And that was about it.
There wasn't an awful lot familiar.
There's quite a ways on over to what is now Highway 6.
As a matter of fact, I don't remember Highway 6 being there.
It wasn't.
And the main road was what is now called Welburn Road, the main highway.
The railroad station, was it a busy place?
Are there people...
coming and going?
Not except train time.
That's what I mean.
Were there number stops?
I guess there was a night train went through.
I got in there around 9 or 10 o'clock going to Dallas, and then there was one in the afternoon around 3 o'clock in the afternoon came back going to Houston.
Those two particularly now.
That was Southern Pacific.
There was also a
The Katy Railroad went through there, and I don't recall passenger trains there, but I guess there were, but they came at times that none of us that I associated with went down there to the depot at that time of day.
And I guess you all got accustomed to hearing the train whistle, or knowing... Yeah, I guess we did, but...
About the only time any of us went down there was on Sunday afternoon.
We would go down Sunday afternoon.
The dairy barn was across the railroad track.
We'd go down on Sunday to watch the train go through and wave to the girl on the train.
And as I say, the dairy barn was on the other side of the railroad track, and we'd go over and get a pint of ice cream and come back over and wait for the train.
And then after the train passed on, I went back to the dormitory rooms or down to the Y or the Casey's, someplace like that.
All right, back to the day routine.
And then you had classes all morning.
Did you?
Yes.
Mostly, well, classrooms in the morning, and as well as I recall now, the lab work was usually in the afternoon.
Did you fall in and march to noon chow?
No.
Oh, we did.
We did, and the band played and marched them into chow, and then as well at night, they had retreat, and we marched in again.
And where would the band gather for that?
I don't remember the name of the street now that Milner Hall was on, but just across the street, what was... Military Walk.
It was on the west side of Military Walk.
There was a little park over there, and we would farm there, and then the cadet corps would march in.
We were right there, the first thing out of Speza Hall.
Now, in the afternoon, did y'all have intramurals?
Yes.
What were your favorite intramural?
I didn't participate.
Being in the band, what spare time we had, we went to band practice or practiced ourselves a little bit before band practice.
Usually our band practice was at night.
And would you practice every night?
No, two or three times a week, though.
Now, in the band, what were the songs that y'all played then most often?
What was the Aggie repertoire?
Well, the main one, of course, Goodbye to Texas.
Okay.
That and then.
The Aggie wore him.
Aggie wore him.
And the spirit?
No, the spirit was not born yet.
Okay.
It came along a little later on.
a couple of years later on.
And Mims, I think, was the name of the person that wrote it, and Adams arranged the music for it.
Do you remember when y'all first began to play The Spirit?
Was that during your time there?
Yes, yes.
What did y'all think of it?
Probably very much.
Well, now,
I didn't particularly like it at first.
I don't know, just something about it didn't quite sit right, but later on everybody got familiar with it and it turned out to be a very nice song.
Was there any kind of a school song before the Spirit?
An alma mater song?
The only thing was, no, it was Goodbye to Texas, but that was about it.
What other songs did y'all play regularly?
Well, it was mostly marches.
Of course, we played the Stars and Stripes Forever and National Emblem March, and there was one, the first one I ever tried to play was a WBM march, and it was a fairly simple march, and I would listen to Bugs Elliott playing, and I'd look at the spots, and like I say, it was a fairly easy march, and I picked up pretty much on how to read music that way.
Alright, so then y'all practice then you would go back to the dorm change and then go over and Fall in to go to evening chow.
Yes And we always had retreat and march the cadet corps in the child again
And after supper, then what would you all do usually during weeknights?
We might go to somebody's room or somebody come into our room for a little while.
And I guess later on we had call to quarters.
And then when you go went to your room and did your studying and you stayed there, supposedly.
The, did you make some important friendships that first year?
In terms of, they lasted?
Not the first year, no.
Like I say, my two roommates never did come back.
But my,
Yeah, I guess in my junior year I made some friendships that lasted until today.
But for the sake of me, I cannot remember who I roomed with me in my sophomore year.
What about the junior year?
What made that special?
Well, they built the shacks sometime during that year, and that fall we were put into the shacks.
Where were they?
They were between the YMCA and Speza Hall over on the west side of Military Walk.
And as well as I recall, there were about one, two, three, four, about five or six rows of these shacks.
And I happened to have one right on Military Walk.
No, this was the street that the YMCA was on.
Military Walk was back behind the Y. We were right on that other street.
And that street is still there today.
Of course, the shacks are all gone.
But these were little wooden shacks, and there were three of us in this little wooden shack with the bunks, again, stacked one on top of the other.
And unfortunately, I lived on the top bunk.
Now, how did you get, why the top?
How did you?
I would climb up there some way.
We didn't have any ladder.
No, but why did you get stuck with the top one?
I don't know.
Unless they jumped in their bunks first, and that was all that was left.
It wasn't assigned or anything like that, as well as I recall.
These shacks were about what dimension?
Oh... Were they one room each?
They were one room, yes.
And I'm guessing, you know,
15 by 15, something like that.
I ought to know I lived in them long enough.
You had electricity, but did you have a wash basin?
Was there any plumbing in it at all?
We must have had a wash basin, but there was no other plumbing.
We had to go to a shower bath that was built over there next row or two.
And about how many shacks were there?
I guess it was...
They were about ten deep, maybe not, well between eight and ten deep on each side, and they, there was a little street in between the two.
They faced each other, and the next two would face each other, the next two would face each other.
And these were built because the enrollment was growing?
Yes, and there was no dormitory, no dormitory.
I could hear these things whistling.
How is it that you and your buddies, how did y'all get the shacks instead of somebody else?
I have no idea.
They just assigned the band to it.
Oh, the band.
The whole band was there.
And there was some others there besides the band, too.
And I don't remember what company it was, whether it was artillery, cavalry, or what.
But the band just occupied part of the shacks.
And were they hot or cold?
We had a wood-burning fireplace or wood-burning stove.
In each one?
In each one, yeah.
And where'd you get the wood?
Did the campus provide it?
The campus provided that.
I don't remember.
We undoubtedly had to go get it somewhere, and we probably made freshmen go get it for us, but it was a little wood-burning stove, and you'd have to get up in the morning to build your fire to warm up the place.
Were there screens on the windows?
I don't remember, but there surely were.
There must have been.
So you weren't bothered by bugs?
No, no.
They were not too uncomfortable, actually.
We fussed about them, but it was all right.
So you were in those as a junior and a senior?
Yes.
In your fifth year?
No, my fifth year, I lived in dear old Gathright Hall on the second floor front, where I looked out over everything.
Now, Gathright was one of the oldest buildings on the campus.
Yes, it was one of the oldest there.
The post office was on the main floor of that building, and it seemed to me like there was something behind it.
The bookstore was built later on.
It was behind Gathright getting coerced.
And was Gathright a pleasant place?
I enjoyed there that year very much.